Terminal navigation 

pwd - print working directory: To see which folder we are currently in.
ls- list: Use this to find out what else in in our currently directory. However it doesn’t show all files.
cd - change directory - moves you into another directory.
., .., … : allows you to go navigate directories, . - is the current directory, ..- one level up, … - two levels up and so on.

File/directory modification 

mkdir - make directory: this creates a directory
touch - this is usually for updating the modified date of a file, however when a file doesn’t exist it will create the file.
open : this opens a file.
mv - this allows you to move a file, it also allows you rename the file if you move a file to another file.
cp - copy: copies a file, or directory with -r added
rm - remove: removes a file, or directory with -r added.

Clear - this will clear the current screen of your terminal, however you can still scroll upwards se see your previous code.

Flags 

Man Ls - manual - lists and explains the different flags that can be added
Ls -l: the flag -l added to ls , will give us more  information on the directory, such as file size and recent modification.
Ls -a: shows hidden files in the directory
Ls -al: shows a list of all the files/folders as well as hidden files in the directory
-r: recursive, this makes ongoing commands, we add this flag to commands such as CP and RM for the command to apply to the directory and its sub-directories.
-f: allows you to to bypass confirmation notifications such as when deleting 
-m: allows you to add a message 

Git Commands

git init - initialise: creates a new git repository 
git status: allows you to review the status of files, allowing you to check what has been modified.
git add: allows us to stage a file, which adds the changes made, like a snapshot, before committing
git commit: this keeps track and creates a record of the files that have been changed, as well as a message of what has been modified.
git log: allows to you to review the changes made to your file
git revert: this will allow you to undo a previous commit

